STP for SRIOV VGPU (#150)
RedHatQE/openshift-virtualization-tests-design-docs: stps/sig-virt/sriov-vgpu.md

# Openshift-virtualization-tests Test plan

## **SR-IOV vGPU - Quality Engineering Plan**

### **Metadata & Tracking**

- **Enhancement(s):** N/A — no VEP linked for this STP; feature tracked via
  https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VIRTSTRAT-623
- **Feature Tracking:** https://issues.redhat.com/browse/VIRTSTRAT-623
- **Epic Tracking:** https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-79151
  (related: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-74901)
- **Feature Maturity:**
  - DP: N/A

>   - TP: v5.1.0

Reviewer: **Merge timing vs. target version.** Feature Maturity targets OpenShift Virtualization TP v5.1.0 / GA v5.2.0, but `main` currently tracks 5.0 and 4.23 — not 5.1. If this STP is for 5.1, it should be merged **after** the 5.1 branch is cut, so main-branch content stays aligned with the release it documents. Please confirm the intended target release and hold the merge until branching, or re-scope the maturity/versions if this is actually meant for the current (5.0/4.23) line.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

  - GA: v5.2.0
- **QE Owner(s):** Akriti Gupta (@akri3i)
- **Owning SIG:** sig-virt
- **Participating SIGs:** sig-virt

**Document Conventions:**

- **SR-IOV vGPU** — GPU virtualization that exposes NVIDIA GPU Virtual Functions (VFs)
  to VMs for shared GPU access, replacing mediated-device (mdev) based vGPU on
  RHCOS 10 kernels
- **VF** — Virtual Function: a hardware-partitioned slice of a physical GPU that a
  VM can consume for GPU acceleration
- **RHCOS10** — Red Hat CoreOS 10 worker nodes (RHEL 10 kernel), required for
  SR-IOV-based vGPU support

### **Feature Overview**

With SR-IOV vGPU support on Ampere and newer NVIDIA GPUs, customers can share a
physical GPU across multiple VMs on RHCOS10 worker nodes. Cluster administrators can
configure GPU sharing on those nodes, and VM owners can request GPU acceleration for
their workloads without dedicating an entire GPU to a single VM. Multiple VMs can run
GPU-accelerated work at the same time on the same physical GPU, each with its own

> vGPU. Going forward, the RHEL 10 kernel only supports SR-IOV-based vGPUs, so this is

Reviewer: **Contradiction on mdev support.** The Feature Overview here (and Document Conventions, line 23) states the RHEL 10 kernel "only supports SR-IOV-based vGPUs" and that SR-IOV vGPU is *replacing* mdev on RHCOS 10. But Regression Testing (lines 205-206) says "on RHCOS10, mdev vGPU remains supported for pre-Ampere GPUs (for example Tesla T4)." Both cannot be true as written.

Suggest qualifying the Overview/Conventions to say the RHEL 10 kernel only supports SR-IOV-based vGPUs **for Ampere-and-newer GPUs**, while pre-Ampere GPUs continue to use mdev vGPU — matching the Regression section.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

      and the GPU remains visible after the operation
    - A VM with an SR-IOV vGPU can be restarted and the guest still detects the GPU
      after restart
    - A VM requesting an SR-IOV vGPU when no VF capacity remains stays
      Pending/unschedulable and exposes observable scheduling feedback (events or
      messages)

- [x] **Non-Functional Requirements (NFRs)**
  - *List applicable NFRs and their targets:*
    - **Reliability:** GPU device must be visible inside the VM after successful
      SR-IOV vGPU assignment and after restart
    - **Documentation:** Documentation is required for supported SR-IOV vGPU
      configurations
    - **Compatibility:** Feature targets RHCOS10 nodes
  - *Note any NFRs not covered and why:*
    - **Performance:** NVIDIA owns GPU
      performance characteristics. OpenShift Virtualization does not run dedicated
      GPU performance benchmarking in this cycle.
    - **Monitoring:** N/A; no new CNV alerts/metrics claimed for this cycle.
    - **UI:** No OpenShift Virtualization UI changes claimed for this feature.
      Customer value for UI testing is not identified

>     - **Scalability:** No new CNV scale requirements. Multi-VM sharing is functional

Reviewer: **Scalability NFR should acknowledge the underlying platform limits.** It's dismissed as "no new CNV scale requirements," but per AGENTS.md, when a feature relies on a mechanism with existing scale constraints those must be acknowledged even if the feature adds none. Here the feature is bounded by the GPU's max VF count, the NVIDIA GPU Operator's scheduling, and physical GPU hardware.

Suggest: "No new scale requirements introduced; scalability is bounded by the maximum VFs supported by the physical GPU and the GPU Operator's scheduling limits, validated within standard functional boundaries."

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

#### **3. Technology and Design Review**

- [x] **Developer Handoff/QE Kickoff**
  - *Key takeaways and concerns:*
    - Ampere and newer GPUs need SR-IOV vGPU support on RHCOS10
    - SR-IOV vGPU needs NVIDIA GPU Operator version 26.11 (Nov 2026)

- [x] **Technology Challenges**
  - *List identified challenges:*
    - Requires NVIDIA SR-IOV-capable GPU hardware and RHCOS10 worker nodes
    - SR-IOV vGPU needs NVIDIA GPU Operator version 26.11
  - *Impact on testing approach:* Tests run only on RHCOS10 nodes with supported
    NVIDIA GPUs (Ampere and above) and a working GPU Operator SR-IOV vGPU configuration.

- [x] **API Extensions**
  - *List new or modified APIs:* No new user-facing APIs claimed for this STP.
  - *Testing impact:* N/A

- [x] **Test Environment Needs**
  - *See environment requirements in Section II.3 and testing tools in Section II.3.1*

- [x] **Topology Considerations**
  - *Describe topology requirements:* Bare-metal cluster with at least one RHCOS10
    worker node that has an NVIDIA SR-IOV-capable GPU, NVIDIA GPU Operator installed,
    and SR-IOV vGPU (VF) configuration applied

>   - *Impact on test design:* Multi-VM sharing scenarios require enough VFs on that GPU  for atleast two concurrent VMs.

Reviewer: Typo: "atleast" should be "at least".

```suggestion
  - *Impact on test design:* Multi-VM sharing scenarios require enough VFs on that GPU for at least two concurrent VMs.
```

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

### **II. Software Test Plan (STP)**

This STP serves as the **overall roadmap for testing**, detailing the scope, approach,
resources, and schedule.

#### **1. Scope of Testing**

**Testing Goals**

> - **[P0]** As a cluster admin, after SR-IOV vGPU is configured on an RHCOS10 GPU

Reviewer: **Testing Goals largely restate the Acceptance Criteria.** The goals in II.1 closely mirror the Acceptance Criteria in I.1 (and the Section III scenarios). Per AGENTS.md, goals should be SMART and operationalize the ACs (naming configuration dimensions, priorities, measurable targets), not repeat them across three sections.

Suggest rephrasing the goals to add testing-specific detail beyond the ACs, or cross-referencing rather than repeating.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

#### **2. Test Strategy**

**Functional**

- [x] **Functional Testing** — Validates that the feature works according to specified
  requirements and user stories
  - *Details:* Functional tests cover RHCOS10 node vGPU/VF advertisement, VM creation
    with SR-IOV vGPU, in-guest GPU visibility, pause/unpause, restart, concurrent
    multi-VM sharing of one physical GPU, and negative scheduling when capacity is
    exhausted.

- [x] **Automation Testing** — Confirms test automation plan is in place for CI and
  regression coverage
  - *Details:* All Section III scenarios will be automated in
    openshift-virtualization-tests .

- [x] **Regression Testing** — Verifies that new changes do not break existing
  functionality
  - *Details:* Per NVIDIA (not CNV): on RHCOS10, mdev vGPU remains supported for
    pre-Ampere GPUs (for example Tesla T4). Ampere and newer GPUs do not support mdev on
    RHCOS10 — they use SR-IOV vGPU instead. Existing GPU passthrough and pre-Ampere mdev
    vGPU suites remain in regression on supported environments. New SR-IOV vGPU tests are
    additive for Ampere and newer GPUs on RHCOS10.

> - [ ] **Self-Validation Testing** — Should any of the new tests be included in the

Reviewer: **Unchecked testing types need a rationale or an Out of Scope entry.** Several testing types are unchecked `[ ]` in Test Strategy (Self-Validation, Performance, Scale, Security, Monitoring, Upgrade, Cross Integrations) but are not reflected in Section II.1 Out of Scope. Per AGENTS.md II.4.1, a testing type that skips coverage should be documented as an exclusion. Cloud Testing is the model done right here — it's unchecked *and* has a matching Out of Scope entry with rationale.

Suggest giving each unchecked type either a one-line rationale in II.2 or an Out of Scope entry (as done for Cloud Testing).

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

  self-validation test package?
  - *Details:* N/A. SR-IOV vGPU tests require specialized GPU hardware, RHCOS10 GPU
    nodes, and NVIDIA GPU Operator SR-IOV support not available in self-validation
    environments.

**Non-Functional**

- [ ] **Performance Testing**
  - *Details:* N/A for this STP. No CNV performance code changes; GPU performance is hardware-defined.

- [ ] **Scale Testing**
  - *Details:* N/A. Two-VM concurrent sharing is functional coverage only; no dedicated
    scale testing.

- [ ] **Security Testing**
  - *Details:* Out of scope for dedicated security scenarios. Isolation is enforced by
    NVIDIA GPU firmware / SR-IOV and device exposure is provided by the NVIDIA GPU
    Operator; OpenShift Virtualization adds no isolation mechanism. QE validates VM
    consumption of advertised SR-IOV vGPU devices only.

- [x] **Usability Testing** — Validates user experience for operational feedback

>   - *Details:* Validate that VM status and events provide clear feedback when an

Reviewer: **Usability Testing claim lacks a matching goal/scenario.** This entry says it will "validate that VM status and events provide clear feedback when an SR-IOV vGPU is successfully assigned," but there is no Testing Goal in II.1 and no Section III scenario for that positive-assignment-feedback case (only the capacity-exhaustion negative case is covered). Per AGENTS.md, a Test Strategy claim that something must be validated needs a matching goal + scenario.

Suggest either adding a P1 goal + Section III scenario for observing successful-assignment feedback, or narrowing this detail to the capacity-exhaustion path that is actually tested.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

#### **4. Entry Criteria**

The following conditions must be met before testing can begin:

- [ ] Requirements and design documents are **approved and merged**
- [ ] Test environment can be **set up and configured** (see Section II.3 - Test Environment)
- [ ] RHCOS10 worker node with NVIDIA SR-IOV-capable GPU is available
- [ ] NVIDIA GPU Operator build with SR-IOV vGPU support  (GA 26.11)

#### **5. Risks**

**Timeline/Schedule**

- **Risk:** NVIDIA GPU Operator SR-IOV vGPU support targets Nov 2026 (26.11);
  testing may be delayed if the operator lands late
  - **Mitigation:** Start QE only after NVIDIA GPU Operator 26.11 GA with SR-IOV vGPU
    support is available.
  - *Estimated impact on schedule:* Testing start may slip until operator GA is usable
  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

**Test Coverage**

- **Risk:** Coverage limited to Ampere GPU(s) — other SR-IOV-capable GPUs not validated
  - **Mitigation:** Ampere is representative of SR-IOV vGPU functionality; additional
    GPU models can be validated in future cycles when hardware becomes available
  - *Areas with reduced coverage:* SR-IOV-capable GPU models other than Ampere
  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

> **Test Environment**

Reviewer: **Duplicate risk across two categories.** The Test Environment risk (325-332) and the Resource Constraints risk (344-353) describe the same blocker — limited availability of the RHCOS10 Ampere GPU bare-metal cluster — with near-identical mitigations. This inflates the risk register without adding information.

Suggest consolidating into one entry (Resource Constraints is the more precise category for cluster availability), and using Test Environment for a genuinely distinct risk or marking it None with a brief justification.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*

  VM assignment cannot be validated
  - **Mitigation:** Gate execution on Entry Criteria (operator 26.11 GA); do not claim
    QE complete without P0 scenarios passing
  - *Reason untestable and mitigation approach:* Blocked on NVIDIA GPU Operator 26.11 GA;
    testing starts after Entry Criteria are met
  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

**Resource Constraints**

- **Risk:** Limited availability of the required RHCOS10 Ampere GPU bare-metal cluster may
  delay SR-IOV vGPU testing
  - **Mitigation:** Coordinate with the team to schedule access; run P0 first when the
    cluster is available; keep automation ready so execution is not delayed once access
    is granted
  - *Missing resources or infrastructure:* Always-available RHCOS10 Ampere SR-IOV vGPU
    BM cluster
  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

**Dependencies**

- **Risk:** Hard dependency on NVIDIA GPU Operator(26.11) SR-IOV vGPU support
  - **Mitigation:** Track operator 26.11 GA; keep Dev/PM informed if dependency slips
  - *Third-party services or blockers:* NVIDIA GPU Operator SR-IOV vGPU
  - *Sign-off:* Sudhakar Molli [Date]

---

### **III. Test Scenarios & Traceability**

> - **[CNV-74916](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-74916)** — As a cluster administrator,

Reviewer: **Scenarios map to the automation Jira, not a requirement Jira.** All six Section III scenarios reference CNV-74916, which is the automation ticket. It's fine for multiple scenarios to trace to a single *requirement* Jira, but the Requirement ID column should point to the requirement (feature/epic-level), not the automation work item. Mapping scenarios to the automation Jira breaks requirement traceability.

Suggest setting the Requirement ID to the actual requirement Jira (reachable from the tracking metadata) and, if useful, referencing CNV-74916 separately as the automation ticket.

---
*Assisted-by: PI (claude-opus-4-8)*
